Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are
presenting 99% the same policy choices
but when Bernie Sanders presents those
policy choices he calls them socialism
and when Elizabeth Warren presents those
policy choices she calls them capitalism
and they're the same policies they were
very fundamentally genuinely that even
the same specific tax reforms the same
social programs it's the same slate of
priorities and proposed new legislation
but one of them calls it socialism and
one of them calls it Cavaliers so
there's a problem here so if you're
gonna sit here and say well there are
failures of capitalism yeah of course
I'm gonna agree with you I'd be an idiot
not to I lived under a lot of those
failures but it's not fair when I say
hey your system failed to address this
or failed to do this for you to point to
go well
these are still some problems under
capitalism sure but we're not having
everybody in the state of Arkansas or
Texas die because of some famine and
then killing people may try to escape
the country somebody finds out about it
right he's at one there's a difference
in scale and two I'm not claiming that
capitalism on its own and the purest
most libertarian pipe dream system will
fix all these problems capitalism needs
to be heavily regulated the profit
interest doesn't always work in the
public Savior favor but I don't think
you can just say well because there are
problems with capitalism let's try
central planning when central planning
has not effectively worked for any
economy ever the difference is we have
to be a little bit more honest when we
look at why certain people die or why
certain things happen under economic
systems States when somebody goes to the
hospital and they can't afford to get
some tests to screen for cancer and then
they later died of it because they
didn't catch it early enough this is a
failure of capitalism we have the
resources there literally right there
and the person can't access it okay that
is 100 failure capitalism when you have
a people who are told to stop farming
and then food isn't rationed it to them
and all of their crops are requisitioned
by the central government as a part of
central planning and then those people
starve three and a half to seven and a
half million of them that is a failure
of central planning of socialism or
communism do you agree or do you think
that these two things are fundamentally
different
all right we are living through a period
of time when the meaning of the word
socialist is being redefined in the
mainstream media in mainstream political
discourse not just the United States all
around the world and then on the other
hand the concept of socialism is being
used insincerely by left-wing extremists
by communists crypto communists to hook
and draw in a broader public to draw in
more public interest and support for an
ideology that most people find abhorrent
morally repugnant and a historical by
which I mean they find it to be based on
oh hi it's about history in the same way
that the neo-nazi movement rests on lies
but let's let's talk about the
mainstream use of the word socialist
first and foremost that is changing
right now and the way in which the
meaning of the term has become slippery
and unintentionally deceptive ie it's
deceptive even when people don't mean to
deceive you it can be shown in
contrasting the rhetoric of Bernie
Sanders to the rhetoric of Elizabeth
Warren Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren are presenting 99% the same
policy choices but when Bernie Sanders
presents those policy choices he calls
them socialism and when Elizabeth Warren
presents those policy choices she calls
them capitalism and they're the same
policies they are very fundamentally
genuinely that even the same specific
tax reforms the same social programs
it's the same slate of priorities and
proposed new legislation but one of them
calls it socialism and one of them calls
it capitalism so there's a problem here
now on a very practical level if I were
a gambling man I would bet that in the
in the future within the next 10 years
we're gonna see the Bernie Sanders
approach collapse that his style of
rhetoric will cease to be popular and
we're gonna see the Elizabeth Warren
style of rhetoric succeed Elizabeth
Warren says of herself quote I am a
capital
to my bones that's her approach but she
is presenting a set of priorities again
the same as Bernie Sanders that many
people today would describe as some kind
of moderate socialism now what is
moderate socialism or what do moderates
mean when they say socialism I think the
turning point here was the turning point
in the popular perception of these
options for the future not just the
United States but in Europe in Australia
and many places in the world was a 2015
film by Michael Moore so this is a film
that was titled where to invade next the
title is a joke Michael Moore is a
famous documentary filmmaker my claim
here is not that everyone on earth saw
this film my claim is that everyone who
is employed in the mainstream media saw
this well the type of people who sit at
CNN and even Fox News whatever the type
of people who sit and broadcast on the
radio and on TV media professionals they
all saw this film and that's because
Michael Moore is the darling of that
social class in this film in 2015
Michael Moore naked Lee and directly and
honestly makes the argument that the
United States should imitate high-tax
countries in Europe it is an argument
that the United States should have
higher taxes and higher quality social
programs delivered to the public paid
for by those taxes so if we take Denmark
as the example of this and please
remember Denmark is a capitalist country
it really is Denmark is a free-market
capitalist country but it's a country
with high taxes and high quality social
services if we take Denmark as the
example here then we could call this the
Denmark if occation of the United States
of America now if we took Japan as an
example we could talk about the Japan
off' occasion or Japanese ation s it
but it was mostly focusing on examples
of affluent countries in Western Europe
that Michael Moore put together this
argument now another rhetorical approach
to this is Bernie Sanders currently on
his campaign standing in Detroit
standing in the united sates american
detroit and pointing across the river to
canada and asking the question why is it
that in canada getting prescription drug
benefits is so much cheaper in the
united states of america why can't we
just imitate canada this would be the
canadian ization the united states of
america which does not take too much
imagination for Americans really - but I
have to emphasize again here like the
contrast between Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren a conservative a
conservative Christian Republican
politician could have just as easily
made that argument it would have been
dynamite for anyone in the Republican
Party to go and stand on the river and
point across the river and ask why is it
that when Americans get sick they have
to pay this much money for this medicine
and when Canadians get sick they have to
pay this much mean there's nothing
inherently left-wing about the argument
there's nothing inherently socialist
about the argument there's nothing
Marxist about it um you know this is uh
this is a concern that could be
expressed by conservatives Hagan can say
it should be expressed by conservatives
in the same way when Bernie Sanders
points the finger at China and points
the finger at Mexico that Bernie Sanders
openly uses the rhetoric of saying China
and Mexico are stealing American jobs
that is that is paleo conservative that
is the definition of conservative over
the last 50 years
his whole policy position on imports
protectionism trade and even migration
both legal and illegal immigration
Bernie Sanders is in effect a
conservative now of course Bernie
Sanders takes these policies and
packages them and presents them to the
public as socialist again Elizabeth
Warren almost the exact same policies
packaged and presented as left-wing
capitalists so we have a problem here
the fundamental problem is that since
the breakdown of neoliberalism almost
all of these terms have been bending to
the point of breaking it's becoming
almost meaningless it's like we're going
down a highway and the meanings of the
signs on side of that where there are
signposts and the signposts use words
that once had a very clear and simple
meaning but today they have to have a
footnote in a paragraph of text to let
you know what these words really mean
right now what does socialists really
mean the discourse in the United States
of America that's now influencing the
whole world is a form of moderate
socialism that really means capitalism
with very high taxes and very high
quality benefits provided the public
with those taxes that's what I mean and
that's really historically that's not
the meaning of socialist even
economically it's not the meaning of
socialist and Bernie Sanders himself
will openly say he does not support the
government's taking over ownership of
private enterprise his definition of
socialism is not about public ownership
of the means of production say state
subordination of the free market that's
not what socialism is room and that's
why exactly the same policy that he
presents as socialist can be presented
by Elizabeth Warren as capitalist whew
I'm tempted to end the video there but
here's the problem we also lived through
a period of time when this mainstream
use of the word socialist is being
cynically employed by people in the far
left by crypto communists who want to
create more sympathy for communism
through the overly vague and misleading
use of socialism and - there are
communists who are actively trying to
recruit new members and supporters and
followers through a series of stages of
first saying oh well do you agree with
socialism as defined by Bernie Sanders
and then asking oh can we get you to
agree with anti capitalism with blaming
capitalism
oh now step three is can we get you to
participate in making excuses for the
historical failures of Lenin Stalin Mao
Zedong can we start to get you to
participate in a kind of a historical
revisionist history oh can we oh and now
can we fully radicalize you that is
going on at exactly the same time and
that is to be profoundly disturbing
immoral and really sickening and it's
basically you know the little boy who
cried wolf they say you know oh you
can't have free healthcare that's
socialism they say fine
I'm a socialist you know and that's
really what's going on with the Bernie
Sanders debate right now and I think
it's amusing and it shows that the
hysterical anti-communism has kind of
taken the the tank off the word or the
the onus off the word people aren't
afraid of the word anymore I think
that's good but I must say that
socialism is not the government spending
money it's not progressive taxation that
kind of thing goes on in every society
to some degree or other
so when you say socialism so are you
implying like a fully planned economy
then now well you'd have to define what
a fully planned economy means if you ask
the average American what is socialism
the answer they would probably give you
is stealing money from the rich and
giving it to the poor
okay I'm not here to defend the average
American sentiments for socialism or
communism that's absurd however your
counter points are just as propaganda
Laden to try to say that
industrialization and the Soviet Union
was successful even though these were
done on the backs of massive famines
that were a great showcase of the
failures of central planning as a
support for central planning if Germans
never happen under capitalism people
never substantiate and becoming a
superpower this is what ridiculous that
would be like me saying that that you
know the mass deaths in the u.s. Civil
War proved that American capitalism
doesn't work that would be like me
saying the Great Depression proves that
capitalism doesn't work I mean that's
that's that's ridiculous you could think
the country becomes a global superpower
totally superpower the invent space
travel electrifies the entire place is
building some
the biggest hydroelectric power plants
in the world people that lived in huts
are suddenly living in modern apartment
buildings with electricity but none of
that counts because there was a famine
along the way what's going on here in
this debate from the far-left
perspective the crypto communist
perspective it's not as spontaneous as
it may seem for them the crucial
challenge is to get you you in the
audience to loosen your grip on reality
to be willing to take that step from
fiction into nonfiction to make you a
believer where you're willing to start
participating in these lies about the
tragic history of the Soviet Union the
tragic history of China under Mao Zedong
under communism were you're willing to
valorize and make excuses for some of
the most despicable and notorious
dictatorships in the history of the
world if they can get you to do that
they've won and that is the sense in
which they're taking the moderate use of
the word socialist and they're making it
into bait on a hook and what I see
happening on the Internet again and
again and again is people taking that
bait and they're basically conditioning
themselves to be more receptive to
communist propaganda without realizing
that that's what they're buying into
when they take the first step of
basically settling for a policy package
that is no more socialist than Elizabeth
Warren or the modern state of Denmark
these are the dangers of how ideology
gets packaged and repackaged in the 21st
century on the Internet I mean people
like to disrespect my truth but the fact
is that you know my name is I don't know